Added configMap concept module to the Che 7 docs (#816)
codenvy/che-docs: src/main/pages/che-7/installation-guide/con_che-configmaps-and-their-behavior.adoc

// advanced-configuration-options

[id="che-configmaps-and-their-behavior_{context}"]
= Che configMaps and their behavior

The following section describes Che `configMaps` and how they behave.

A link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.1/builds/setting-up-trusted-ca.html[`configMap`] is provided as an editable file that lists options to customize the Che environment. Based on the Che installation method, `configMaps` can be used to customize the working environment. The type of configMaps available in your Che environment varies based on the method used for installing Che.

> == Che installed using the Operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Che installed using an Operator
```

> link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.1/applications/operators/olm-what-operators-are.html[Operators] are software extensions to Kubernetes that use link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.1/applications/crds/crd-managing-resources-from-crds.html[custom resources] to manage applications and their components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/applications/operators/olm-what-operators-are.html[Operators] are software extensions to Kubernetes that use link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.1/applications/crds/crd-managing-resources-from-crds.html[custom resources] to manage applications and their components.
```
Unless there's a specific need, all OpenShift docs links should use `latest` as the version, so that the URL doesn't become obsolete.

Reviewer: Fix in other occurrences, too, please.

Reviewer 2: Applied in https://github.com/eclipse/che-docs/pull/816/commits/93507afa2dd0ae49f919a2831d8da4c40830646d

> When Che is installed using the Operator, this installation provides the user with two automatically generated `configMaps`: `che` (main) and `custom` (additional).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Che installed using the Operator provides the user with two automatically generated `configMaps`:

* `che` (main)
* `custom` (additional)
```

> * The `che` `configMap` contains the main properties for the installation and is in sync with the information stored in the CheCluster Custom Resource file. If the user edits the `che` `configMap` after installing Che from the Operator, those changes are automatically overwritten by the values that the Operator obtains from the CheCluster Custom Resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `che` `configMap` contains the main properties for the installation and is in sync with the information stored in the CheCluster Custom Resource file. User modifications of the `che` `configMap` after installing Che using the Operator are automatically overwritten by values that the Operator obtains from the `CheCluster` Custom Resource.
```

To edit the `che` `configMap`, edit the Custom Resource manually.

> The `configMap` derives values from the CheCluster field. If a user changes the CheCluster Custom Resource field, the Operator changes the attributes of the `che` `configMap` accordingly. Those `configMap` changes automatically trigger a restart of the Che pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `configMap` derives values from the `CheCluster` field. User modifications of the `CheCluster` Custom Resource field cause the Operator to change the attributes of the `che` `configMap` accordingly. The `configMap` changes automatically trigger a restart of the Che Pod.
```

> * The secondary `custom` `configMap` is for additional properties customization that the user can edit manually. These properties include environment variables that are not already specified in the main che `configMap`. To apply the manual changes to the `custom` `configMap`, delete the Che pod to manually restart it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The secondary `custom` `configMap` is intended for additional manual customization of properties by users. These properties include environment variables that are not already specified in the main `che` `configMap`. To apply manual changes to the `custom` `configMap`, delete the Che Pod to manually restart it.
```

> == Che installed using a Helm Chart:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Che installed using a Helm Chart
```

> A (https://helm.sh/)[Helm Chart] is the Kubernetes extension for defining, installing, and upgrading Kubernetes applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A link:https://helm.sh/[Helm Chart] is a Kubernetes extension for defining, installing, and upgrading Kubernetes applications.
```

> * When Che is installed using a Helm Chart, the user configures Che manually by modifying the `configMap` object. The `configMap` object is called `che` and is generated as an editable template after the installation. To apply the manual changes to the `custom` `configMap`, delete the Che pod to manually restart it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When Che is installed using a Helm Chart, the user configures Che manually by modifying the `configMap` object. The `configMap` object is called `che` and is generated as an editable template after the installation. To apply manual changes to the `custom` `configMap`, delete the Che pod to manually restart it.
```

> Alternatively, use the following command in the kubectl command-line interface:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, use the following `kubectl` command:
```

+
----
$ kubectl rollout restart deployment/che
----
+

> This avoids the downtime associated with deleting a pod, as it deploys and starts a new pod, and only then deletes the old pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This avoids the downtime associated with deleting a Pod because it deploys and starts a new Pod, and only then deletes the old Pod.
```
